you need help I don't need to know
anything about your business but I know
you need help because you've got a big
dream and you want to grow your business
bigger and in order to do that you need
a bigger team but the question is where
do you find good help how can you
justify paying for help if your business
isn't making as much money as you'd like
it to how do you write job descriptions
for virtual help what are the best sites
to find quality help what virtual
interview techniques will help guarantee
you land the best talent and what about
negotiating pay how do you know if the
person you're hiring is actually capable
of doing the job you need them to do and
if you know you need help but you just
don't even know what area of your
business to start in first you're in
luck as they say sharing is caring and
today I'm going to share our secret
weapon with you today I'm interviewing
the vice president of Team Johnson
Michelle Cinelli and I have to say in my
30 years of business I don't think that
I've ever met someone as strategic as
skilled as systematized when it comes to
finding
exceptional people that fit our culture
maybe even more importantly they're very
qualified they're the right people at
the right price and I can't even tell
you what a difference it has made in our
business and my overall happiness just
the joy of working with this group of
individuals the stress level that goes
down when you've got the right people in
the right positions and remember this
isn't necessarily all full-time people
we're going to talk about consultants
and agencies and hiring all of the best
practi IES you are in luck make sure
you've got a pen and piece of paper this
may be one of the most valuable episodes
that you will have heard on build your
tribe in a long time so I want to
commend you instead of searching for
another episode on how to grow your
social media you've found the episode
that is going to help you grow your
business without further Ado Michelle
pinell you're look our secret weapon and
so today people are really in for a
treat because you're going to share the
thing that I think can make or break
most businesses I think think this is
the number one reason why a lot of
entrepreneurs end up like stuck at a cap
like stuck at maybe it's earning 200,000
or maybe you know it's that just barely
about to hit the six figure mark But if
you're going to go from six figures to
seven figures and from Seven figures
hopefully to eight Figures it's all
about team and it's a skill so I'm
really excited to be able to share your
your process I want to start with um how
is it your
experience do you feel led you to a
place where you're like I I kind of
understand how to find them and where to
find them and what to ask them yeah I do
think a big part of it is because I've
been on the other side in all capacities
I've been a full-time employee for like
the government I've been a a part-time
employee for a big Corporation I've been
a contractor I've been a business owner
so I think because I've seen all sides
of that lens and I was a team member an
employee a cont contractor for so long
um I often feel like I know kind of what
it's like to be in the shoes of those
people both on the other side of the
interview but also the team members who
were doing the stuff day-to-day that's
making all of the big stuff happen so I
do think that that's a big part of it is
because I've you know had that full
breath of experience the other part of
it though is I think that when you
approach your team members with a
servant's heart when your whole goal is
to make
their lives better more efficient more
joyful to come to work more Joy gets
poured into the work that they do which
then you know contributes to this
wonderful machine that we have going
here at Team Johnson let me ask how does
that relate to the hiring process like
how are you how are you exemplifying
that in your methodology of of finding
the right people yeah um I think it
starts with knowing that there are
humans on the other side of these
applications so one thing I feel very
strongly about is that everybody gets a
response from me so I have I have you
know an admin who helps me do some of
the vetting and stuff like that but if
it's a no you're going to hear from us
if it's a you're moving on to the next
step you're going to hear from us so I
think that is a huge part of the process
in helping people feel safe at knowing
going into a new organization can always
feel a little bit scary but knowing that
the other person on the side you know
respects your t time and is going to get
back to you and you know that they're a
part of a well-oiled machine I think
that helps a lot the um application and
kind of job posting thing is is so
crucial that job posting that you put
out into the world is so important
because it gives people your Vibe and
it's going to attract hopefully the
right people who want to fit into that
culture as well so if you're doing like
a super boring Bland job posting that's
going to be the people that you get
apply let me Circle back to the everyone
gets a reply let's assume that you've
done a job posting for something that's
really popular you get over 300
applicants are you replying to every
single applicant who submits an inquiry
or are you only replying to those people
who you've had a conversation back and
forth with every single person and we're
utilizing all the same tools and tricks
that we use in the business we have
automations I have text expanders I have
all sorts of really great things that
allow me to just put people in buckets
and then my admin helps me but we do
reply to every single application to let
them know where they are let's start
people at the beginning so I'm
overwhelmed I'm a solopreneur I I know I
need help I need help in so many areas
and I feel like one of the common
mistakes that a solo preneur makes is
they they think they're going to find
this one person who can do all of those
things so and I I know this is Broad but
like let's say we're talking to that
solopreneur they're doing so many of the
admin things the editing the they're
learning how to code they're they're
doing all the things what who's the
first person they need to hire oh I
think a really good VA who has a little
bit of maybe social experience is a
great place to start and when I say
social experience I don't mean they're
not a social media manager and you
should not expect them to be a social
media manager but if they can go on and
engage as you on your social media
accounts reply to comments they can
maybe help process DM requests that are
coming through they're just kind of
watching your account for you a lot of
entrepreneurs aren't actually that great
at the like social side and the content
creation side so having a really great
VA who can be watching that for you and
kind of helping free up that brain space
gives you a couple hours back into your
week that you can then put to good use
doing those big CEO things that only you
can do I think a lot of entrepreneurs
worry about like okay if I've got to
hire someone now I'm responsible to give
them full-time work benefits hiring
firing all those things so I know that
we're big fans of letting people work
virtually finding people who can you
know plug holes these aren't necessarily
employees can you help us understand
like what's the definition of somebody
who you would bring on as an employee
and versus someone who could be a
contractor or a virtual assistant or
someone who's doing Project work yeah so
I think most especially solopreneurs or
brand new entrepreneurs you're going to
start with contractors don't get hung up
on thinking you need to hire a full-time
40 hour a week employee because that's
going to hold you back the power of
contractors is that you are finding
people who are specialized and highly
skilled in their thing doesn't matter
what it is it could be a super evolved
it position down to somebody doing some
admin tasks but whoever you're finding
they're really good at that one thing so
um there's a couple important
distinctions a contractor is somebody
who you're not paying employment taxes
or FICA taxes or you know providing
benefits to them so you don't have any
of that so oftentimes it means that you
can actually uh offer them a slightly
higher rate than you would an employee
because you're not having to pay all
that extra stuff they have to pay it
themselves so in my opinion this is
actually one of the best ways to get top
top talent is to seek out contractors
because you are giving them a higher
rate and often times these are people
who are supplementing maybe an employee
wage that they have going on or they've
got multiple clients or whatever it is
but I think it's just a really great way
of like tapping into little bits of
tasks that need to get done and so for
project-based contractors these are
often ones that you're just doing a
one-time scope of work you agree to a
project-based fee the contractor
completes it and then you can walk away
long-term contractors you're going to be
building more of a relationship and
these are the ones that you're going to
want to invest in for positions that are
really hard to train for essentially
right so like a copywriter because it is
difficult for them to learn your voice
to learn your style to figure out your
brand products and specifications so to
constantly try to hire and find a new
copywriter for every single copywriter
thing you may have is going to take a
lot of time but if instead you can find
somebody who is either going to be on
retainer which means you pay them
upfront and they are then available to
you for a certain amount of hours or
somebody that you know you can tap on
whenever you have a project and you keep
going back to that same person that's
going to be the best way to utilize the
hours that you spent finding them how do
you recommend writing that first job
posting where there's so much you need
this person to do and you know even if
you could find someone that could do
like like 50% or 75% of the things
you've listed it would be a win
especially those things like probably a
lot of people could do these things
they're not highly skilled a lot of
administrative things it's like taking
these little things off of your plate
how would you write a job posting that
gave you some leeway some flexibility
that is a really great question I think
everybody should always start asking
themselves what their ideal candidate is
first which includes things like soft
skills and personality traits write that
out kind of vision board that and then
you'll kind of know what are your musts
and what are your wants and so if you
can categorize those things both on
skills so you know maybe my must is must
know how to do QuickBooks must be able
to use a SAA must be able to use slack
but would be nice to have somebody who
has experienced using Dropbox or
whatever it is if you can break those
two things up then you can put both of
them into a job posting and you can let
people know if you don't have these
things don't bother please don't apply
these are deal breakers if you have
these These are going to help your
applications stand out in front of the
crowd is there a specific formula I mean
I know it changes depending on whether
you know the level of help that it is we
need and I know it certainly will change
based on the personality and the culture
of each person's business and what type
of people you want to attract but is
there like a kind of a template a
formula where you could help people say
like start with this then go to that
yeah absolutely I think it starts with a
summary right because people are going
to get really bored I can't tell you how
many job postings I've seen where the
first three paragraphs are telling about
the company and don't make any mention
of the job or the ideal candidate it's
just about the company it's some boring
copy paste from the website scratch that
you don't need that the first three
sentences should be a really Punchy
title about about the job itself kind of
think of this like marketing right this
is your header this is the top hero
section where you're able to attract
somebody's attention just as much as you
are looking for an ideal candidate
they're looking for you too and if you
have a crappy job posting you're going
to miss out on a lot of the talent so
utilize that space when you say um a
Punchy heading how important is it there
that you're using words and terms that
someone who's looking for a particular
type of work is I mean because I've seen
some really creative job posting
headings where I'm like but no one's
knows what that means exactly so don't
use
jargon please stop calling everybody a
unicorn like that that's not helpful to
anybody it needs to be a description of
the the job and then like maybe your top
two skills so for example if we're
looking for a copywriter and we really
need them to be skilled in sales copy we
would say something like wanted a really
witty sales copywriter who understands
how to write for women over 40 right
we're just kind of condensing into what
are the most important deal breakers
that we need this person to have I love
that it's also you're you're really
identifying what is your looking for so
already somebody who's like oh I'm I'm a
witty copywriter but I don't know
anything about the way or what a woman
over 40 is interested in reading or her
language Etc so you're weeding you're
niching down your audience which I
really love exactly yep exactly do you
recommend you know when I first started
doing this online right like when I was
going to different websites I would
often start by reading other people's
job postings and stealing like little
lines how helpful is that super helpful
for the like details so for example we
had to hire a full stack developer my
goodness I that is not my skill so I
went on and I stole in fact I chat GPT
at first and then I went on and I stole
a whole bunch of like the bulleted parts
of what these people do because I don't
speak that language yeah the right ideal
candidate speaks that language and
they're going to know what all of those
little things mean in the like specific
requirements detailed task listings um
but I think going on and getting
inspiration from a myriad of places is a
really good idea I'm so glad you just
said that I want to get back to this
formula we've started with the heading
we've gone to a summary we've talked
about some of those bullets but my ADHD
won't let me let go of this question how
do you interview someone like a full
stack developer when you're the first
person they're going to come across and
you're like I don't even know what these
words mean how do you know if the person
you're interviewing actually has the
chops yeah that's a really great
question and a lot of it comes from you
are goingon to have to do some prep
before you interview you you just are at
this point I have been you know running
operations for you guys for for a long
time that I have a pretty good language
for most of the stuff now but the first
time I interviewed a developer I had to
Google stuff and I had to watch a couple
YouTube things and figure out which
coding language was absolutely needed so
then basically I'm just like listening
for those little buzzword that I've
heard from my research ahead of time and
just making note of it but the real test
is an actual test we do test projects
with everybody that we hire because it's
such it has been the difference between
somebody that we thought was amazing who
turned out to be kind of a dud MH okay
so we're going to get to those test
projects because I've been a big
believer in those from day one you know
as soon as it became apparent to me that
not everyone I needed to bring on was a
full-time person that's just a game
changer so please stay tuned you guys
that this is going to blow your mind
let's go back to that formula we've got
the heading we've got the summary we've
got some bullet points what else is in
that formula that you use for a job
posting yeah okay header summary and
then you do need to have a little bit of
an about us right so people kind of get
it gist for what the company is and then
you're going into your mus haves and
your would be Nies so mus haves are the
very specific skills and this can
include soft skills and hard skills so
if you know that you need somebody who
is highly organized because they're
you're hiring for a project manager they
have to be detailed organized very
communicative those are all soft skills
but they're a requirement so put them in
the required skill set and then you can
have the the would be nice to haves okay
after that we pretty much go straight to
the application process I don't think
there's necessarily a whole lot of other
fluff that needs to be added as long as
you're very very clear in those mus
haves would be nice to have and your
summary do you have a trick or something
you like like to use for that job
posting where you know you're going to
get inundated with copy and paste
replies and just a way to kind of weed
through those to see who's actually
reading the full posting and and who's
just like you know Mass replying to
hundreds of postings I do I have a
couple of Tricks the first is that I
don't accept any applications on any of
those job posting sites so indeed
LinkedIn because those are way too easy
to just hit quick apply quick apply
quick apply those are garbage we don't
use those I actually have people
directly email me and then we go through
all of those applications you could also
set up a Google form or something like
that but I also don't ask typically for
a resume in the application I ask for it
later in the process but again a a a
cover letter or a resume are really easy
to just send the generic template that
you've been sending out to a million
people so instead we ask some really
specific questions like question number
number one tell me what you've been
doing for the past five years and the
experiences that lead you to apply for
this job question number two and then
maybe it's like a technical question
about the position question number three
what's your current availability in
client workload something like that that
they have to read the question and ask
it and then we're pretty harsh in the
vetting if people do not very clearly
follow those
instructions they get a rejection
because if they can't follow application
instruction
there's a pretty good chance they're not
going to be able to follow through on
instructions on the task for our team so
are you using that same process when
you're using a freelancer site like upw
work yeah okay ask questions a lot of
times what I would do is almost put in a
you must reference your favorite song in
the first sentence of your reply
something so and I put that at the
bottom to make sure okay if this person
doesn't have enough attention to detail
to read all the way to the bottom
they've just eliminated themselves and
it's crazy how few people actually have
that kind of attention to detail on
those kinds of sites yeah it's amazing I
mean honestly it helps us weed through
90 to 95% of all
applications where are your favorite
places right now I know this changes all
the time but where and and maybe you can
break it down like according to what
type of staff you're looking for but
where are your favorite sites right now
yeah so if you looking for a
project-based contractor you cannot be
upw work it is in my opinion the
absolute best Fiverr is all right I
think the talent is better on upwork in
my opinion and then for longer term
contractors Freelancers who are going to
be with you and then if you're looking
for employees I'm really digging indeed
right now I think it's one of the best
ones zip recruiter is also fantastic but
it is
expensive yeah and then actually
LinkedIn is still a really great place
so if you have a decent profile on
LinkedIn then posting jobs there can be
a really great place as well Michelle I
had a conversation with one of our
marketing impact Academy students the
other day she's got a super successful
business I mean she's doing like gross
over $6 million and I she said I I want
to sell the business I I need to do
something different I said why she said
I'm I'm just so overwhelmed I'm so
stressed out I have all the wrong people
in place and so it's almost like she
wants to sell the business to escape and
what I shared with her was her poor
hiring practices like she and she
doesn't want to be a CEO she she wants
to you know come up with a great she do
want to do anything with operations or
to be the president or any of those
things she wants to come up with the
great ideas and for a role like that
this is a this is a heavy hire this is a
big dog do would you recommend someone
like that use possibly a recruiting
agent or would you go through the same
process and I'm GNA I'm going to prefer
is this one step further by saying she's
already has a track record of not being
great at hiring oh man that is so tricky
because ideally that position is coming
from within people you're already like
aware of and working with I think that's
a really really hard external hire
because you essentially have to trust
them with a big part of your business so
I think that's a really really tricky
one I think the runway for a a position
like that would have to be really long
there would have to be a long courting
process just vetting you're putting your
baby in someone else's hands it's a it's
a a big chunk of change and I I wanted
to bring this up because I think there's
a lot of entrepreneurs out there who are
super creative and they've found
something that's profitable but they're
killing the profits because they just
don't know how to hire and they don't
want to run the business and they need
they need somebody to step in and run
the business and that's that's a big
hire but like I said to her wouldn't you
spend like $200,000 on a salary $300,000
if it could take you to that eight
figure Mark and she's like absolutely
all day long I'm like well then spend
the time and my personal
recommendation and maybe it's because I
know this person I I think she needs to
hire a a Head Hunter and someone to do
that for her I don't know that everyone
knows their own shortcomings you know
and I've never used that Pro well
actually we have used that process
before but it's expensive it's very
expensive yeah and the tricky thing with
Head Hunters these days too and and
recruiters we saw a ton of them getting
uh let go from all that crazy startup
Tech boom that happened in 2020 and 2021
so many of them lost their positions
that there's they're not always working
at your best interest um I I find
they're often coaching candidates to say
things to secure the job oh man be a
little tricky I think but I mean it's
not obviously don't come for me
recruiters I know that there's a lot of
really amazing ones out there but it's
it's such a deeply personal thing that I
think it would be really hard I do think
that there are operators and then there
are you know the dreamers and the
schemers and so sometimes maybe it's
expanding your network and looking at
some entrepreneurs who maybe aren't good
content creators or aren't good at
courses but they're really good at the
operation side of things and seeing if
you know they want to leave their
business behind and run things for you
yeah I love that and I know that's a a
rare circumstance I think the majority
of the people who are listening to build
your tribe are just trying to get out
from under the overwhelm and they just
need to to make that next tire that
first Tire or that next tire so we've
got them writing out a job posting now
they're getting applicants what is your
process for screening those applicants
if especially if you get like you know
50 right yeah so the the first thing for
me is did they follow the application
instructions if no it's an automatic
rejection if yes then we wait till
they've all come in and then we take a
look at them and the ones that are they
have the experience and they've at least
answered the questions in a way that we
like I always send a followup and it's
written questions because now I want to
see how they do with more of a
conversational thing going back and
forth and usually it's a little bit more
technical so again if I'm hiring for a
developer I'm asking some technical
questions okay that's going to help me
really weed through the people who have
the chops and the people who don't by
that point we've whittel it down to like
eight or 10 and then we're doing
interviews so you wait until you get all
the applicants do you pick a date and is
this because it saves you time and keeps
you focused if you're like okay I'm
going to wait until this date then we're
going to close applications I've got 50
now I'm going to send all of my top
applicants the the same series of
questions so you can are you doing this
all in kind of blocks yeah we're doing
it in blocks partly it's just because
that's my process and that's how my
brain works but another reason is
because there's been times where I sent
people follow up early on and then
really really good applications came in
later in the process and then I you know
i' kind of like wasted some people's
time who maybe wouldn't have moved
forward had I had those other
applications and I really do not like to
waste candidates time and your own
what's a major red flag other than not
following through on the uh instructions
there's a couple so I have definitely
had some people just start complaining
about their current employer or a client
and you know there's the difference
between you know sharing a a tricky
situation and like actively complaining
about a previous client before you have
any kind of established relationship now
is this something you're hearing in the
interview are there red flags that you
see on with your applicants like
something I don't or even in their
responses yeah absolutely so definitely
depends on the position that we're
hiring hiring for right if I'm hiring
for a copywriter and they're filled with
maybe grammar or like it's really
boring application then I don't want
that if it's a developer who doesn't
seem like they know what they're talking
about in the application that's
obviously a red flag I do think in the
interview that it's easier to to find
red flags I think this is personal but
if somebody comes to an interview with
me and they don't turn on their
camera I just have like a hard time even
moving them forward because I want to
have some face to face and it feels like
you know we're just not able to have
that connection and you're probably
going to become forgettable to me I have
found I don't know if you found this to
be true but I found that a lot of
certain countries they are I don't know
if it's a shyness but I I notic
especially when I have interviewed
people from the Philippines and not to
generalize but that's been my
experiences they often are like really
reluctant not all but more reluctant
than others to turn their cameras on yep
I've noticed that as well and I do think
sometimes it's because they're trying to
make sure they have the best internet
connections so they are at you know an
internet cafe or something like that
I've seen that happened too or you know
maybe their setup their background isn't
great and so they're not wanting to see
that so you know utilize virtual
backgrounds and blur it out but we want
to see we want to have a connection I
think and when you are on a a zoom
interview is that your process the so
we're talking about doing an interview
face to face what are some other things
that are just like red flags instant red
flags would be probably talking on and
on and on and not being able to filter
themselves now obviously this isn't
because everybody has different
communication Styles and even like you
know some people who are very neuro
neurodivergent might you know have a
hard time cutting themselves off but if
I am only able to get through three of
my 10 interview questions that probably
tells me that we're g to have a little
bit of a tricky time communicating
remotely because this person doesn't
have a good feel of how to edit
themselves what are you picking up on so
that you know that this person fits our
culture and I guess even before I ask
that question let me go back and say how
important is it that even someone who's
part-time and the viral so you know a
lot of our most of our team I think all
of our team for the most part we work
independently we're in different
locations we're very rarely all together
so why does culture even matter why does
it even do I need to worry about whether
this person will get along with this
person I think especially with a remote
team the culture piece of it is less
about who's going to get along with each
other because we're not in close
proximity with each other it's who is
going to be a team player in the sense
of oh my gosh this platform just broke I
need five people to help me go in and
manually do whatever this task is and
knowing that you have people that you
can rely on who are going to respond and
be available we are very respectful I
think of people's schedules and
flexibility and their different hours
but you know if we don't hear from you
for days and days then you're probably
not a good culture fit because we need
to be able to rely on each other and to
tr trust each other so it's less about
personalities with the remote team and
it's more
reliability and the ability to adapt and
being willing to kind of step outside of
your scope sometimes to help the greater
good okay so when we're crafting our
questions for an
interview what are some of the biggest
mistakes that people make when they're
asking questions of a
candidate I think too often we just
focus on the hard skill type things do
you have experience doing this how would
you handle this situation and we forget
about the soft skills and those are
things like asking people what stresses
you out what did you accomplish in the
past year that you're really proud of
you know what are the characteristics
that your friends and family use to
describe you those are really really
crucial questions to ask people because
you're gonna you know you want to hang
out not hang out but you want to hire
somebody who you're going to be able to
stand to be around and even if they are
the most skilled person in the world if
they don't have those soft skills that
you're looking for you're going to have
a hard time getting a lot of stuff done
how do you craft questions that you
because I I think when people are
sitting down to prepare the questions
for their interview it makes someone the
first time they're doing an interview
really nervous and they're like okay so
I'm looking for somebody who's
hardworking and a team player and they
often will ask questions that lead the
witness like are you a team player yes I
am so how how would you phrase a
question like that where I'm trying to
figure out there a team player without
letting them know I'm trying to figure
this thing out yeah I think oftentimes
you can ask experiential questions so
tell me about a time that you were you
know working with a larger group and
things weren't going well and you know
how did you handle it and how what was
the end solution or resolution to this
and you're going to be able to then hear
if they you know I I've definitely had
people be like well I went and told my
boss and you know then we all had to
have this group meeting and you know
like people are gonna kind of sell
themselves out and tell you the truth of
how they handled that situation and
that's going to let you know is this
person somebody who can pivot and figure
it out and be a team player or are they
going to want to just stick within their
scope and go you know report it to their
boss so situational questions I think
are often the best way to avoid that
leading the witness if we've got to make
an important hire it's a big hire it's
you know we're going to spend money to
get the the top
candidates how many times will you
interview them I typically only do one
interview me but if it's a really big
hire then I'm not the only person who's
involved so I'm probably the front line
and then maybe if there's like let's say
it's for a particular Business Center
then maybe I'm asking program director
to also interview them and then usually
if it's a really big crucial Roi
producing position we also ask you to do
that kind of final
interview Vibe them out see if they are
you know aligned with your vision and
then we're going to do that test project
and those things combined tend to give
us the full picture of who that
candidate is and we use a test project
for absolutely every higher like from
the person who's basically only going to
do a couple of projects for us to the
person who we hope will expand their
role and take on more responsibilities
and and have a bigger future with Team
Johnson can you explain to people why we
use that how we use it and why it's so
beneficial it is so important I would
argue it is the most important part of
this process and we oftentimes will
because these are always paid we always
pay our candidates for their time and
this is for two reasons one sometimes we
actually have work for them to do and we
want to be able to use it if it's really
great right it's super unsavory to ask
people to do a free test project and
then to use their stuff so we pay them
for their time and that this means
you're going to get a really good
quality test project that you can
sometimes use because you need whatever
that thing is but it also means that you
can really test out what it would be
like to work with that person my process
for this is I I don't want to just just
give you the project scope and then have
you turn it in a week later I want to
work through this with you I want you to
ask me clarifying questions if I didn't
include an asset that you think would be
really great ask me for it if you get
done early enough send me the draft and
I will give you feedback I want to what
it's like to collaborate and work with
you in the Long Haul and this test
project is the ultimate way to do that
are you telling them that in advance or
are you giving let's say three people as
we often do we give our top three
candidates the same or very similar
projects and are you just sitting back
to see which one of these individuals is
going to take the initiative to ask for
that feedback or you letting them know
in advance that they have that
permission I tell everybody in advance
that I want them to treat this like a
real working relationship and schen I
cannot tell you how few people take me
up on that and it's really telling
because the amount of people that will
turn in their project 30 minutes before
it's
due kind of tells me what it would
probably be like to work with them
ultimately yeah that's great okay so
let's give a specific example of maybe
the time we hired a Blog writer how do
you assign that work yeah so really what
we're going to do is we're going to
write as clear and as detailed of a
project scope as we possibly can we want
to give them as many resources we can
set them up for Success so I always do
basically like a summary too of like
what overall is this project what are we
looking for and then I'm going to link
as many assets for them as possible for
the blog writer I'm going to be sending
them our brand voice guide our brand
guidelines I'm going to send them
examples that we liked I'm going to send
them examples that we didn't like I'm
going to send them topic ideas
oftentimes I will even you know be like
hey if you really want to set yourself
apart you've got millions of hours of
content from shellene to learn her voice
here's her podcast
go ahead and give it a listen and you'll
set yourself up for Success because I
want them to be successful I want to
find the right person so I'm giving them
as much as I possibly can in that job
scope and then just really being very
detailed I want a 900w Blog article
about this topic here's some resources
you can use to learn about it it needs
to have this CTA I want you to find
three stock images to go with it
whatever it is but it's going to be
really detailed and listed
listen if you guys are enjoying this
which I know you are this is incredibly
valuable for you number one like
bookmark this episode if you're watching
on YouTube leave a comment below and let
us know how incredibly valuable this
information has been from Michelle I
mean you're getting it spelled out word
by word by word we'd love for you to
rate the show too if you're listening on
Apple podcast or Spotify
Michelle it's got to be tricky I know it
is now I've got to figure out how to pay
these three people these three
candidates I'm going to pay all of of
them for the same projects oh my gosh
this is tricky how do I pay them so that
I'm not setting the bar too high and
they think that that's what we're going
to be paying ongoing or too low and
they're not interested and can you help
me wrap my head around the idea that the
entrepreneur listening right now is like
what I have to pay three people for the
same job that seems
ludicrous right so obviously don't pick
a crazy assignment right like don't ask
them to rebuild your website because
that is not realistic and that's going
to cost you thousands of dollars instead
give them one landing page to redesign
so as far as the price that it goes we
are always very upfront in our job
posting about the kind of range that
people can expect because again we don't
want somebody who is not necessarily
skilled to be applying for this job it's
way out of their abilities we also don't
want to go all the way through the
process only to find out that somebody's
rate is three times higher than what we
want to pay so be upfront in the job
posting to begin with and then kind of
take that rate that you have put in the
job posting and either ask questions of
people who you know who are doing this
or maybe hopefully you know a little bit
about the job itself how many hours
would it take somebody to do this job
estimate let's say it's going to take
about a skilled person about 10 hours to
do this job take the kind of lower end
of the range that you put on the job
post
and then figure out what that rate is
going to be usually we are fairly
generous but not crazy with the test
project because exactly what you said is
we need to be able to negotiate the best
rate for us as the business and we don't
yet know what we're paying for so you
don't want to pay somebody a really high
rate of that could end up being really
crappy right I have never actually had
somebody try to negotiate the project
rate they are always happy and excited
to take the project rate there's only
been one other time too where we offered
different project rates because we had a
super super high person and then we had
more of a mid to lower person and we
wanted to see you know how much they
could maybe balance each other out and
so we offer different project rates
convince me that this is a wise
investment because it feels like I'm
triple dipping into my my profits if I'm
paying for the same project to be done
three times so that I'm comparing Apples
to Apples convince me why this is a wise
investment well it costs 40 hours for
you to find those three people anyway so
factor in how much you maybe pay
yourself how much your current estimated
hourly rate is and then times that by
how many hours you have already spent
searching for these candidates and if
you have to do it again because you
hired the wrong person because you
didn't test them out that's all the
value right there that you have lost and
you are not going to be spending doing
the time and the stuff that generates
revenue for your business and you
literally cannot put a price on your
peace of mind like when you hire the
wrong person you're stressed you're
going back to the drawing board it's
hard on the rest of the team it impacts
your bottom line it impacts your
creativity impacts everything so I think
it's probably one of the best decisions
you could make it's a Wise Wise
investment and I recommend Everybody
follow the advice that Michelle's giving
you and specifically like how to do this
I mean because the your your dream your
business is limited by the size of your
team and your team when it's solid when
it's you know working the ways ours is
right now it's just so much more
rewarding like it's so fun I mean and
I'm sure you've been in this situation
too Michelle where a team just feels
really
disjointed it's just it's hard to
describe but like you start to question
if you're the right person if you're in
the right business if it's you you
question everything and it really kills
everybody's Mojo but man when you've got
the right people around and you take the
time to bring those people on the right
way it all the cylinders are firing it's
just it's amazing yeah it it's totally
worth it I always tell people like yeah
you are G to have to invest some time
you're gonna have to spend a little bit
of time doing this but each time you do
it you're going to get better each time
you do it save your templates save your
question make yourself some Sops as you
go along and it's going to get better
and faster and then hopefully you will
have an operator on your team who's
going to do those things for you and
it's going to be set up and it's going
to be a streamlined process well
Michelle I want to bring you back and
have you walk people through because
this is like step one it's like finding
that person but I want to bring you back
and talk to you about making the offer
and then also the onboarding process
because since you came into our family
at team John son like every single new
person we brought on has said that was
the most
remarkable thorough enjoyable onboarding
experience I've ever had so I want to
break down that secret sauce for people
make sure that you are subscribed to
build your tribe if you're watching on
YouTube make sure you hit the
notification bell too that way you'll
you'll see the next time Michelle's here
with us and we'll break all that down
for you because it it does go beyond
just like finding the right person yep
you got to nurture that relationship
take a not on
dates Michelle where can people follow
you where are you most active yeah I'm
most active on Instagram and Linkedin
I'm just michelle. Pinelli it's a
strange last name I'm sure it'll be
linked in the show notes oh one last
thing I wanted to ask what did your
students because you were formerly a uh
High School teacher correct I was yeah
High School history so what did your
students call you miss Pooch I taught
German Miss Pooch yeah and I taught
German for a year and so miss is in
German is fra so it was fra Pooch and
then fra p and then that sounded like a
frappe like a Frappuccino from so by the
end I was
[Laughter]
frappe oh wow that is crazy well thank
you so much for sharing your wisdom with
everybody here on build your tribe
you're the best I I we just we are so
lucky to have you and literally like
you've made such a difference in the
quality of our team and the culture and
so I can't thank you enough oh it's an
honor thanks shelene it's
[Music]
awesome